Explain Whats SQL is

Outline the role of SQL in database

CRUD OPERATIONS: CREATE, READ , UPDATE, DELETE

SQL : Standard language that can interact with structured data on databases.

SQL and relational databases:
    MySQL
    PostgreSQL
    Oracle
    Microsoft SQL server

Database Management System (DBMS/DMS):
    Changes SQL instructions into a from understood by the database.


Explain common SQL tasks
Understanding SQL subset & sublanguages

SQL subset:
        Data defination languages (DDL):
           create command:- Used to create storage objects in a database like tables.
           Alter command:- Modify the structure of a table objects in a database.
           DROP command:- Remove an existing object from a database.

        Data Manipulation Languages (DML): DMS is used to manipulate data in the database like inserting, updating, or deleting (CURD).
        
        Data Query Languages (DQL): DQL define the select command to retrieve data from the database.
        
        Data control Languages (DCL): DCL to control access to the database. 
        Grant access to the database and revoke DDL commands are used to give user access privileges to 
        the database & revert privileges access already given to the users.



Identify the advantage of the SQL

Demonstrate how the advantages of SQL assist with database tasks 

    Advantages:
        
        User Friendly : SQL requires very little coding skills to use.
        
        Standard language: Compatible with all available relational databases.

        Portable language: SQL can be used on any hardware running any operating system or any platforms.
        
        Manage database Security

        Data processing : SQL processes large amount of data quickly and efficiently.


Create a database and tables using the (Data Defination Language) DDL subset of the SQL database. Explain in SQLOperation.txt

Utillize the (Data Manipulation Language)DML subset of the SQL database to populate and Modify the data in the database. Explain in SQLOperation.txt

Reading and query data within databases using the (Data Query Language)DQL subset of the SQL database. Explain in SQLOperation.txt


Outline what a database table is at a conceptual level. 

Explain how data is structured in a database table.

Table: As we already know the table made up of rows and columns which are hold data and table stored in database.
        database holds multiple tables these tables also known as relations. they are relate to one another in more
        conceptual and logical sense a table also known as entity and in object-orienred databases or oodb 
        an entity is an object that is attributes that are like column and field in a table.

Column also known as field or attributes. Each filed have unique name and data type.
Rows: A set of column or attributes or fields in a table form a row in relational database terminology a row known as record.
So a record is a combination of columns or field that contain data.

Data Types:
    Always refers to the documentation of the relevent database system to check what data type its supports.

Generally all database support :
    String : to store string char
    Numeric : to store whole numbers
    Data & time: store info date & time
    Binary : to store images file & other information

Domain : A domain is the set of legal values that can be assigned to an attributes.make sure the values of 
            field can hold are well defined.
            each row in the table is also uniquely identifiedby what known as a primary key.

Types of Keys in a database table

    Indentify the main keys in table in a relational database.
    Explain the relationships between keys in table

The realational database model is based on two main concepts 
    1. entities which are defined as table
    2. relation that connect two realated table.